Remember our doctor
running the medical trial?
What would happen if
this doctor already
knew the long-term outcome
of each treatment?
Choosing the appropriate
treatment would be trivial.
Unfortunately, this is
often not the case.
Usually, the doctor will run
many trials to learn
about each treatment.
Each day, the doctor could use
all the previously
collected data to
estimate which treatment they
believed to be the best.
Let's learn how that might work.
Today, we will discuss
a method for estimating
the action values called
the sample-average method.
We will use this method
to compute the value
of each treatment in
our medical trial example.
Then, we will describe
greedy action selection.
Finally, we will introduce
the exploration-exploitation
dilemma
in reinforcement learning.
Before we get started,
let's recall the definition
of an action value.
The value of selecting
an action Q star is
the expected reward received
after that action has been taken.
Q star is not known to the agent,
just like the doctor doesn't know
the effectiveness
of each treatment.
Instead, we will need to
find a way to estimate it.
One way to estimate
Q star is to compute
a sample-average.
We simply record
the total reward for each action
and divide it by the number of
times that action
has been selected.
To understand the sample-average
estimate intuitively,
let's look at
one action, action A.
The estimated value
for action A is
the sum of rewards
observed when taking
action A divided by
the total number of times
action A has been taken.
We use t minus 1 because
the value at time t is based
on actions taken prior
to time t. Also,
if action A has not
yet been taken,
we set the value to
some default like zero.
Let's go back to
our medical trial example.
A doctor must decide which
of the three possible
treatments to prescribe.
If the patient gets better,
the doctor records
a reward of one.
Otherwise, the doctor records
a reward of zero.
Let's say we know Q star
but our doctor does not.
The doctor gives
the first patient
treatment P on time step one,
and the patient reports
feeling better.
The doctor records
a reward of one for
that treatment and updates
the estimate of the value.
So far there's
only one data point,
so the estimated value
for treatment P is one.
A second patient arrives.
The doctor randomly
prescribes treatment P again.
It fails, the doctor records
and rewards zero,
and updates the value estimate
for treatment P to 0.5.
The estimated value for
the other actions remain
zero since we define the
initial estimates to be zero.
Let's fast forward
time a little bit.
After each treatment has
been tried a few times,
we can calculate
the estimated values
from the observed data.
As the doctor observes
more patients,
the estimates approach
the true action values.
In reality, our doctor would not
randomly assign treatments
to their patients.
Instead, they would
probably assign
the treatment that they
currently think is the best.
We call this method of
choosing actions greedy.
The greedy action
is the action that
currently has the
largest estimated value.
Selecting the greedy action means
the agent is exploiting
its current knowledge.
It is trying to get the most
reward it can right now.
We can compute
the greedy action by taking
the argmax of
our estimated values.
Alternatively,
the agent may choose to
explore by choosing
a non-greedy action.
The agent would sacrifice
immediate reward hoping to
gain more information
about the other actions.
The agent can not choose to both
explore and exploit
at the same time.
This is one of the fundamental
problems in reinforced learning.
The exploration-exploitation
dilemma.
We will discuss this more in
an upcoming video. That's it.
In this video, we introduce
the sample-average method for
estimating action values,
and we define the greedy action
as the action with
the largest value estimate.
See you next time.